[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Courtney McInvale is with
us, a former FBI analyst
and she worked
for the Department
of Homeland Security.
Most recently, she founded the
Seaside Shadows Haunted History
Tours, and she's a licensed tour
guide, historian, and published
author on the paranormal.
Courtney, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
>>COURTNEY MCINVALE: Thank
you so much for having me.
>>NOORY: How in
the world did you
go from being an FBI
analyst to somebody
interested in haunted tours?
>>MCINVALE: I would say
that, actually, my interest
in the paranormal and haunted
history came before my job
with the government.
I grew up in a house that had
a lot of haunting activity,
and I was always sort of
searching for answers for what
had happened there and why.
And so working
for the government
and putting together
puzzle pieces,
coincided nicely with that sort
of research part of my brain.
>>NOORY: You must have had a
passion for the paranormal.
What started this for you?
>>MCINVALE: So when
I grew up, I grew up
in a house in a small
town in Connecticut
that had a lot of activity
that was inexplicable.
And then as I got older, the
activity got kind of dark.
For a variety of reasons
there was a dark energy
that seemed to happen.
And it ended up when
I was a teenager,
that my mom called Ed and
Lorraine Warren to come
to the house and check it out.
>>NOORY: Giants in
the field, Giants.
>>MCINVALE: Giants,
yes, yes, but we
didn't know that at the time.
We were kind of just
suffering this haunting,
so to speak, without
any knowledge of what
to do about it.
And there was a lot
going on in our family.
And so when someone told
my mom that Ed and Lorraine
Warren lived in Connecticut,
and they were Catholic like us,
and they did ghost hunting,
she immediately called them.
>>NOORY: Tell us more.
What happened?
>>MCINVALE: So it started
off, when I was growing up,
just like I call
an old New England
haunting with creaky
floorboards or doorknobs
jiggling or flickering lights.
And my mother would just say,
old houses do strange things.
And it was never anything
too spooky or scary,
just evidence that perhaps
people had lived there before.
>>NOORY: Not too
shocking, right?
>>MCINVALE: No, and
it wasn't anything
that made us lose sleep at
night or anything like that
and you know, so maybe just
the idea that an old house had
little bits of the past left.
And then when I was
a teenager, there
was a lot going
on with my family.
My father was suffering from
different health conditions,
mental health, and him and
my mother were separating.
And he was working a job
called postmortem cleanup
where he was cleaning
up homicide and suicide.
>>NOORY: Oh, what
a horrible job.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah, he was
a police officer before.
So he felt like he could kind
of handle that sort of thing.
>>NOORY: But he
couldn't, could he?
>>MCINVALE: I think that a
darkness maybe found something
inside him during that time.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MCINVALE: And that's
when the activity really
escalated at the house.
So I always tell people it's
a perfect storm of events.
And I grew up very close
to both my parents.
And I definitely saw a change
in my dad at that time.
And we started to
have activity that
was more things like there
was weird sort of blood
on the wall, furniture moving.
>>NOORY: Blood on the wall,
just appeared from nowhere?
>>MCINVALE: Out of nowhere.
And other people
witnessed it, not just me.
My poor mother was
so worried about us,
she was bringing us for
mental health checks
when we first saw it to
psychiatrists to make sure
that we weren't all just in some
sort of weird delusional house.
And then my father,
of course, he
was getting help
for what he had.
But my parents ended
up getting divorced.
And then when this
all sort of happened,
the activity continued
with shadow figures,
and what appeared to just be
things that weren't, I guess,
maybe positive or
there to support us.
And so my mom, the
first thing she did
was call a local priest.
>>NOORY: Help, help.
>>MCINVALE: Yes, yes, she kind
of kept it low because she was
a school teacher, and my dad
had been a police officer,
so being public servants, They
didn't want to advertise a huge
haunting--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MCINVALE: --and have
that reflect on us.
So she calls the priest.
The priest comes does
the blessing, But.
He witnessed some activity.
So he kindly told my mother that
this was beyond his abilities
at that time.
>>NOORY: He wasn't an exorcist.
>>MCINVALE: Exactly.
>>NOORY: He was just a priest.
>>MCINVALE: Right, right,
he's the local parish priest.
So he's thinking, you
know, I've done my part.
>>NOORY: He gives
communion, you know.
>>MCINVALE: (LAUGHING) Yeah.
>>NOORY: Confession.
>>MCINVALE: This is it, right?
I sprinkled some holy water.
I'm going to be on my way.
So she didn't know what to
do because that didn't really
change anything.
We were still having
activity off and on.
And then she called
a pastor that was
recommended to her by friends.
And he did go into
the house, and he
went into what was
my childhood bedroom.
And I guess he was
interested in this room
because my rosary beads
had broken in that room
and things of that nature.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MCINVALE: So he says
in there that he finds
the cause of the haunting.
But what he more or less comes
back and says is, to my mother,
your daughter has Grateful
Dead posters on her wall, so,
they probably--
>>NOORY: Blame the posters.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah the
Grateful Dead posters
brought in demons he tells her.
Needless to say, despite my mom
being better safe than sorry
and removing my
posters, this was not
the cause of our haunting.
>>NOORY: It's Jerry
Garcia's fault.
>>MCINVALE: It was not.
When has a hippie
folk band ever haunted
somebody as house demonically,
right, so or whatever,
negatively.
So that didn't help.
And then that's
when she found out
about Ed and Lorraine Warren.
The number was given
to her by someone,
and she gave them a call.
And that's how we
came to that point.
>>NOORY: Did they
come to the house?
>>MCINVALE: Yeah, so Ed was
pretty sick at that time.
So Lorraine came as sort
of like the front person.
Funny enough,
before she came, she
told my mom to tell the
house that she was coming,
and the activity
got really quiet.
So my mom thought she had done
some miraculous prayer that
had worked.
But she said, no, if
it got quiet, honey,
that means that they
know I'm coming,
and they don't want me to.
And so she came with her team,
and she interviewed the family.
And she investigated the home.
She talked to me too.
She felt like I had some
anger at what was going on
in the house and with
my dad and talked
to me about the importance
of energy and emotions.
But she did think
our home had become
a train station for spirits.
And there were good ones.
There were bad ones.
There were bad ones that had
responded to a darkness that
had happened.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MCINVALE: And she was going
to get rid of that dark energy
with a cleansing of the home.
>>NOORY: Courtney,
what do you think
the impetus was for the
spirits to hit the home?
Not the Grateful
Dead, of course.
>>MCINVALE: Not
the Grateful Dead.
>>NOORY: But what did
you think was going on?
>>MCINVALE: I think
that there was
a lot of emotion in my
family about worrying
about my dad's mental health.
I think his job at
that time, and things
he was taking from his
job, at that time, all sort
of collided into a place
that was already a little bit
energetically prepared
to be haunted.
Because we had
that minute stuff.
>>NOORY: So you think
they followed your father,
basically, to the house.
>>MCINVALE: I think so, and
I think, my poor father,
he also suffered addiction.
And I think they
saw this darkness,
and it almost
perpetuated that darkness
and made it worse for him.
>>NOORY: What
addiction did he have?
>>MCINVALE: To medications that
he was given for mental health.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah,
yeah, and I think
that an energy sort of saw an
opportunity there to come in.
>>NOORY: Does the family
still own the house?
>>MCINVALE: No, my
mother did sell it.
When I went to college,
and I was studying abroad,
she sold the house.
The activity had
started to resume.
My father passed
away shortly after.
He wasn't living in the
house when it got really bad.
OK,
>>NOORY: Sorry to hear that.
>>MCINVALE: Thank you.
But Lorraine did
tell my mom that when
the house was sold, that
it could reopen things
because she had more
or less sort of created
a bubble around our
family and our life there.
But the house could
have retained energy.
>>NOORY: Right, did you have
to disclose to the new buyers--
>>MCINVALE: No.
>>NOORY: --that this was a--
in some states, you have to.
>>MCINVALE: In
Connecticut, you don't.
And interestingly enough,
I just met the newest owner
of the house last week.
And she told me that she's
having a very happy time there
and no hauntings.
So I'm happy to hear that.
>>NOORY: So they followed
the family, primarily,
I would think.
>>MCINVALE: I don't think
we were followed, honestly.
I think Lorraine
cleansed the negative
and made sure the
negative didn't stay.
And I think that our
family just sort of--
my sisters, they
don't have anything
to do with the paranormal.
They're totally happy, and
my mom doesn't really either.
It's more me who was
intrigued and wanted answers,
and I look for spirit connection
in a more positive way
and a less fearful way.
>>NOORY: And then at
what point, Courtney,
did you put together the
Haunted History Tours?
>>MCINVALE: I did that
in 2013, after I had just
left the government jobs.
I graduated after interning at
NCIS, which is Naval Criminal
Investigative Service.
>>NOORY: I thought maybe it
was the TV show you were on.
>>MCINVALE: (LAUGHING) No, no,
the real one in the Washington
Navy Yard.
I had gone to school
in Washington DC.
And I loved putting
together the pieces
and finding information
that no one else had ever
found about cases.
And so when I did
that, I thought,
this is what I want
to do for a job.
This is really fascinating.
And NCIS said, we're not hiring.
So the FBI was having
a hiring blitz,
and they saw my experience.
>>NOORY: Perfect.
>>MCINVALE: I
started with the FBI.
Unfortunately, for me,
because I was more focused
on the work I had
done at NCIS, I
got placed in
counterterrorism after I
finished the FBI Academy.
>>NOORY: Really.
>>MCINVALE: Yes,
and I didn't feel
like I was particularly
knowledgeable
about counterterrorism, but that
was where they needed people.
And when I was
doing that, I just
didn't feel a
connection with my work.
And I more or less didn't like
going to an office from 9 to 5.
>>NOORY: Who does.
>>MCINVALE: Right, it just
that was draining my soul.
So I thought maybe
I'll change my scenery.
And that's when I started
working for Homeland Security
because they had an
opportunity in Vermont,
and Vermont is lovely,
and my sister lived there.
And I could be closer to family.
And so I did that for a
while, but again, it was still
that 9 to 5 office job.
I just had better surroundings.
However, when I was there
at Homeland Security,
I met a woman.
I went on a ghost tour, and
she was running the ghost tour.
Her name is Thea Lewis.
And she was spreading
history, mysterious stories,
talking about these things.
She had books about it.
And when I was little,
I always thought
I wanted to be an author.
My parents read to me every
night when I was growing up,
I wanted to write.
>>NOORY: You did it.
You did it.
>>MCINVALE: Yes,
and she inspired me.
I thought, she's interested
in history and mystery.
My father read me history
books when I would go to bed.
So I thought, this is the dream.
And I said, will you
have lunch with me
and tell me how you got started?
And she did.
And she said, you can
do this too Courtney.
And I said I'd love
to do this at home.
And so I went back
home to Connecticut,
and I started Seaside
Shadows Haunted History Tours
and started writing my
books and left the jobs
with the man behind.
>>NOORY: And you still started
investigating ghosts at this
point--
>>MCINVALE: I did.
I did.
>>NOORY: --which is interesting.
We have a clip of you
using your special tools
to talk to ghosts.
>>MCINVALE: Yes, yes.
>>NOORY: Let's watch this.
>>MCINVALE: OK, sure.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- We're definitely getting
closer to more and more of what
appears to be old settlements,
some of the old trees,
things like that.
And it's definitely getting
a little bit spookier,
so we thought this would be
a great place to investigate.
What we'll be using today
is our EMF detector,
which I believe all of
you are familiar with,
and we'll keep an eye on
it for flickering lights.
And then also, in lieu of a
spirit box because there's
no signal here to help
generate the white noise,
we're going to be using
the Echo Vox, which
is an app recommended to me by
John Zaffis that reverberates
echoes that it hears of
voices and as interpreted
through the app of those voices.
So we're going to be using this
to communicate with the spirits
today.
So let's go ahead
and see who's about.
Can anyone hear me?
- Yes.
- Yes, did you hear that?
A male said yes.
What's your name?
- Al--
- That sounded like Alan.
Alan, is there an Alan here?
- Yes.
- Yes, do you hear that
male voice responding?
Alan, what is your family name?
- Ed--
- I also thought
I heard an "Ed."
How many of you are here?
- Nine.
- Nine, nine.
Where are we?
- [MUFFLED SPEECH]
- Where do we stand?
- Four.
What's the name of this town?
- [MUFFLED SPEECH]
- When did you live here?
- Did you hear that
male voice responding?
He said help.
What do you need help with?
- [MUFFLED SPEECH]
- Are you trapped here?
- Yes, and I heard
Adam, as well.
Were you murdered here?
- [MUFFLED SPEECH]
- Did you hear yes?
Did you hear yes, Marty?
[PLAYBACK ENDS]
>>NOORY: Clearly
there's something there.
>>MCINVALE: Yes.
>>NOORY: Some little voice.
Now, where were you?
>>MCINVALE: This was an
area known as Dudleytown
in Northwest Connecticut, which
is a ghost town, they call it.
It's an old abandoned town.
The ground wasn't fertile.
People didn't really
have a great opportunity
there after the Revolutionary
War when they were building.
However, a lot of
the people that did
live there reported that
that was not really why
the town became a ghost town.
People were going mad up there.
They were murdering each other.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>MCINVALE: They would come
home and find each other
in maniacal laughter, so
no one lives in that area.
There's some homes, and they
call themselves the Dark Forest
Association, and they employ
police to keep people out
of the forest when they're
not supposed to be.
But there is a nature trail
now that goes through it,
and you can go see the old
foundations of Dudleytown.
>>NOORY: Who would want to?
>>MCINVALE: Me, [LAUGHS]
I just want to know why
and what happened
and if it's true.
>>NOORY: Now, this app that
you had, how was it developed?
>>MCINVALE: So it's developed in
the same thing as a spirit box
sort of.
Like I was saying, a spirit box
sweeps through radio stations
rapidly to generate
white noise to allow
spirits to communicate.
This sweeps through frequencies
to generate something
that spirits can manipulate so
that their voices reverberate
back in an echo.
>>NOORY: Clearly there
was some kind of voice
trying to communicate with you.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: You could hear it.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah, and I love
when they communicate with me.
I call that sort of
an active haunting,
meaning that they
see me, and they
know that I'm talking to
them, and they hear me.
And they're answering
me intelligently,
and that means that they
probably know they're dead,
or they're trying to convey
some sort of message.
>>NOORY: Courtney, what
allowed you to start flowing
into investigate battlefields?
>>MCINVALE: That had a
lot to do with my work
at Seaside Shadows,
but I also have
to credit my father with that.
He raised me on Civil War books.
And after I had written about
Connecticut and the places I
was investigating
there, I thought
I would love to
investigate the Civil War.
But in addition to that,
it was during COVID
that I had this
really strange dream.
The Civil War wasn't
sort of on my brain.
That's in the background.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>MCINVALE: And during COVID,
I was making video segments
like this where I was
investigating haunted places
or going to cemeteries
and sharing stories.
And I was scheduled
with my husband who
was filming me to make a
recording about a woman
during the Revolutionary War.
The next day we were going
to go film at her grave.
And then I had this
dream and these two boys
appeared to me in this dream
in Union Civil War uniform.
And they were young.
And in the dream, they conveyed
to me that they lived nearby.
And that I had to find them.
That their stone was nearby.
And I could tell that
they were Civil War,
and they said they
were brothers.
So I woke up not
remembering much else
from the dream other than
that, and told my husband
we have to find these two
brothers that lived near here
who died during the Civil War.
And he said, no, you're
filming Abigail today.
We're not doing that.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MCINVALE: But I
went and found them.
>>NOORY: Why do you
think they contacted you?
>>MCINVALE: I think
that they were
ready for their
story to be shared
and for them to be remembered.
And I think they were
leading me into sharing
the stories of so many like
them whose stories have
been forgotten.
And I was able to
find their monuments,
find out what happened to them,
find their graves from where
they were imprisoned
and where they died
and share their story.
And that led me to find the
stories of so many others.
>>NOORY: Remarkable.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Spirit boxes.
>>MCINVALE: Yes.
>>NOORY: You've used them.
>>NOORY: You like them?
>>MCINVALE: I do.
I do.
I think you have to be
cautious in that you're not
hearing the radio and
mistaking that for a spirit.
I think you have to make
sure you get really responses
that are responding to you.
But I do think it's a
great opportunity for us,
in real time, to hear
a voice from the past.
>>NOORY: Because if it's not a
voice from a past, what is it,
interference?
>>MCINVALE: It could
be interference.
It could be a radio wave.
That's why I tell people,
listen for multiple sweeps
because it's sweeping
through the radio.
So you want to hear a voice
over multiple syllables,
so you don't mistake it with a
song or a radio thing that's--
>>NOORY: Or my show.
>>MCINVALE: Right, that
could come through.
That's right.
If I heard your voice, I don't
want to call you a ghost,
you know.
>>NOORY: Well, we have a clip
of you Courtney actually hearing
a ghost--
>>MCINVALE: Yes.
>>NOORY: --on a battlefield.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Were you taken by surprise
attack from the Confederates?
[NOISE] From where
did they come?
[NOISE] Where were
you attacked from?
[NOISE] On your left.
On our left.
[PLAYBACK ENDS]
>>NOORY: What did we
just see and hear?
>>MCINVALE: So that is at
the Antietam Battlefield,
and that was considered
the bloodiest day
in America, September 17, 1862.
>>NOORY: Tragic, lost
thousands, didn't we?
>>MCINVALE: 20,000 casualties.
>>NOORY: Oh.
>>MCINVALE: It was terrible,
and that was General Mansfield.
Now, General Mansfield,
he was from Connecticut.
>>NOORY: You think that was the
General coming through to you?
>>MCINVALE: I do because I was
standing where he was mortally
wounded, at that exact spot.
And I was asking him, as I
was standing at that spot
where he was shot from,
and he answered that.
And I was already
intuitively looking
in that direction
thinking, yeah,
that's where they
might have hidden,
and no one would have noticed.
But what made me know
that it was really
him wouldn't come
until weeks later.
I was researching his story
at the Historical Society
that actually sits in
his home in Connecticut.
And they had the letters that
were sent home to his wife.
And all of the soldiers
that remarked to his wife,
as was tradition at the time,
to say what happened to him,
said that he was
yelling when he was shot
that he was shot from his left.
And then it was
published in the papers.
>>NOORY: And that's
what he was saying.
>>MCINVALE: His last words
were, "from your left."
>>NOORY: What do you
think he wanted with you?
>>MCINVALE: I think he
was just answering me
about his story to make sure
I understood what happened.
I found out that, for him,
on that day at the battle,
other generals weren't
listening to him.
He had an instinct
and intuition,
and he was trying
to protect everyone.
And it was disregarded because
it was early in the war.
And I think he's trying to
say, I knew they were there,
and I'm still here too.
>>NOORY: Ulysses S Grant--
>>MCINVALE: I love him.
>>NOORY: --had an
interesting wife.
>>MCINVALE: He did, Julia.
>>NOORY: And she had a lot of
premonitions about his death,
did she not?
>>MCINVALE: She had a
premonition about him
and Lincoln, to be honest.
This was one of my favorite
stories that I ever heard.
>>NOORY: And Lincoln had a
dream about his own death.
>>MCINVALE: He sure did.
>>NOORY: We'll get into that.
So Julia didn't get along
with Mary Todd Lincoln.
They weren't best friends.
But Grant, who was, of course,
the Union General and Commander
for the Union during
the Civil War,
was good friends
with Lincoln, right?
So Grant and Lincoln
would have some events
together after the end of the
war, like, public appearances.
They were due to
go to the theater
together on the night
Lincoln was shot.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MCINVALE: However,
prior to that,
Julia had a dream that Lincoln
and her husband Ulysses
would be shot.
And she said to him, you're
not going to the theater.
To which he said, I
know, basically, you're
trying to avoid hanging
out with Mary Todd.
>>NOORY: How do you tell
the president no, right?
>>MCINVALE: Right, like
we have to do this.
And she said tell him we have
to go home to our children.
We have to be safe.
And then a messenger came
to deliver the invitation
to the theater to their place
where they were staying.
And she said that messenger
is one of the party that's
going to kill Lincoln.
She knew it.
And sure enough,
Ulysses believes her.
He loves his wife very much.
And they left and told
Lincoln that they wouldn't
be able to go to the theater.
And Lincoln was shot
and killed that night.
And it was turned out
that Ulysses was supposed
to be killed that night too.
>>NOORY: Well, both of them,
yeah, a double assassination.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And Lincoln's dream was
he walked into the State Room
at the White House.
>>MCINVALE: Yes.
>>NOORY: And there was a
person in a casket surrounded
by soldiers.
>>MCINVALE: And he asked
who died, and they said,
the president.
>>NOORY: And he looked
in, and it was him.
>>MCINVALE: Yes, yeah.
>>NOORY: That's got
to be kind of jarring.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah, and it
happened a week before,
and it happened more than once.
And Lincoln believed
in spiritualism too.
Him and Mary Todd had
seances in the White House
to communicate with their son.
They very much were a believer
in omens from the spirit world.
So he was unnerved.
>>NOORY: Tell me
about the drumming
you heard at Gettysburg.
>>MCINVALE: So Gettysburg is
this remarkable residual haunt.
It's almost like we step back
in time, or perhaps we do.
Perhaps we do.
And we can hear
what's happening there
as if we're at the battle.
And when I was at
Gettysburg, not long ago,
I walked onto the
wheat field, which
was a clash between
Georgia and Connecticut,
which is honestly the
people I'm writing about,
and I heard drumming.
It was so real, I thought that
it was re-enactors at first,
until I walked out
there and saw no one.
My husband drove
around to see if there
were any re-enactors
whose drums could
have been echoing through.
>>NOORY: Like drumming of
a garrison or something
like that.
>>MCINVALE: Drumming
like marching into battle
or even a death march
>>NOORY: Boom baba
boom ba ba bom bom.
>>MCINVALE: And we heard a
couple different cadences.
And then it stopped, and
then it came back again.
And it was in a thunderstorm,
like, this electric energy,
and then you could
hear the drumming.
>>NOORY: Well,
they say a picture
is worth a thousand words.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Let's look at
this experience you have.
>>MCINVALE: Yes.
>>NOORY: You could hear
drumming in the background.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah.
Yeah, it's pretty incredible.
I get chills still.
>>NOORY: How do you
pick this up on video?
>>MCINVALE: [LAUGHS] I--
>>NOORY: Are you a magnet?
>>MCINVALE: I would
like to think so.
I spend a lot of
time on battlefields
trying to talk to spirits
and connect with them
and be open to them and hope
that they're receptive to me.
But I also just think that
there's some places where
we have this luck.
But I will tell you, my husband
and a friend were with me,
and their phones didn't
record the sound.
>>NOORY: But you got it.
>>MCINVALE: But it came on mine.
And I was further
away from the sound.
>>NOORY: Do you think all
battlefields, Courtney,
have ghosts?
>>MCINVALE: I think
all battlefields
have energetic
heartbeats of history.
And sometimes it's a
ghost who very much maybe
didn't know they passed.
But oftentimes, it's the
impact of all of these people
who clashed with each
other in utter violence
and hand-to-hand combat.
These young people who didn't
know they were going to die.
>>NOORY: So much distress.
>>MCINVALE: And that
energy, just sits there.
>>NOORY: Negative, negative.
>>MCINVALE: And it
can never go anywhere.
It will always be there.
I think that's what's
there and a reminder.
>>NOORY: Is there a
certain time to see ghosts?
>>MCINVALE: You know, I have
luck at all different times.
With the drumming, I found
out that was actually
during the hours that the
clash in the wheat field
was occurring.
So sometimes maybe you
can have more occurrences
on an anniversary.
But really, if you're receptive,
I think it can be any time.
>>NOORY: Antietam, of
course, had a battlefield
which was called Bloody Lane.
Tell me about that.
>>MCINVALE: So Antietam
was a single-day battle,
unlike Gettysburg
which was three days.
But we kind of separate
when we look at battlefields
by areas where different
engagements happen
during a battle.
The Bloody Lane was just
known as the Sunken Road.
It was an old farm
road in rural Maryland.
And in the Bloody Lane
or the Sunken Road,
there were Confederates that
were sort of staged, you know,
like it was their trenches
with their weapons.
And the Union was going
to infiltrate into there,
and try to shoot those
Confederates, which they do.
>>NOORY: Boy, you
know your history.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah, and
the Union shoots them,
and they die in there.
But they shoot the Union,
and the Union falls in there.
So all their bodies
just get lined up here
piled on top of each other.
And the blood runs
through it, and this place
was never the same and always
sort of remained haunted.
And it became known
as the Bloody Lane.
>>NOORY: And we have a
clip of you at Bloody Lane.
>>MCINVALE: Yes.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Now, as for
paranormal activity,
there's quite a bit
of it reported here.
People report seeing
figures walking the lane,
seeing them laying down,
hearing crying, hearing moaning,
hearing attacks come
from the battlefield.
We just heard a park ranger talk
about a figure in white that
appeared that he
thought might have been
a Medal of Honor recipient.
But more commonly than
not, school field trips
report a lot of activity here.
And there was an Irish Brigade
led by a man from Ireland
on the Union side.
And he had a battle cry that
was [NON-ENGLISH] which sounds
a lot like, fa, la, la, la,
la or something like that from
a Christmas time.
So they ran up to their
teacher telling them
that they heard someone singing
Christmas carols in the field.
The teacher looked around
and of course, saw no one,
but then saw that
Irish battle cry.
This is the Bloody Lane.
[PLAYBACK ENDS]
>>NOORY: You heard that
cry in the background,
>>MCINVALE: Yeah, and I didn't
hear it when I was there.
>>NOORY: Now, you sure
it's not some guy hiding
behind a tree going, wah.
>>MCINVALE: Oh, yeah, I'm sure.
I was there.
That day, it was 105 degrees.
And the only other people
we had seen were family,
and we waited until they
were completely gone
because I don't like
anyone in the background
when I'm doing my stuff.
And so I was sure that
I was completely alone
there that day.
And we didn't hear
the crying until later
when we were reviewing
my little history tidbit.
>>NOORY: There seems to be a
lot of pain at these sites.
>>MCINVALE: Yes.
>>NOORY: You feel that
when you're there?
>>MCINVALE: I do.
I do.
You feel-- you feel pain,
and you feel sadness,
and you feel fear.
>>NOORY: You're
scared too, then?
>>MCINVALE: I'm not scared of
them, but I feel their fear.
Their fear of not
knowing what to expect
and not knowing that this
would be the end for them.
>>NOORY: Why are they
reaching out to you?
>>MCINVALE: I've
spent a lot of time
trying to reach out to them.
And I try to be understanding
to them and their story.
And I tell them I want
their stories to be shared.
And I think they
know that I will
do my best to share the
tales of who they are
and what they meant and
what happened to them.
And so that way, their soul
might have a little peace.
>>NOORY: You would think
after almost 200 years,
they had had enough of
this, but they don't.
>>MCINVALE: Time doesn't
work that way, I don't think,
for them.
For them, it could have been
as soon as yesterday in the way
that time works.
And for us, it's
hundreds of years,
but they don't feel that.
>>NOORY: These spirits,
as they reach out to you--
>>MCINVALE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: --do they talk
to you, or do they just
do it in song and
symbols and you know?
- It depends.
So you heard General
Mansfield spoke,
and sometimes when I'm
there, if I'm really focused,
I can almost hear the voices
of them or answering me.
But a lot of times,
it's them leading me
to information or something
of that nature that
allows me to find more.
But I try to record conversation
with them as much as I can.
>>NOORY: Do they visit
you at home, or always
on scenes and sites?
>>MCINVALE: You know,
I think they do.
I live in an old house.
And I decorate it with
pictures of all of the people
that I write about too.
So I probably honor
them in that way.
And we do have doors open
and shut and footsteps.
But I live in a very old home.
And my husband always
says to me, Courtney,
you're taking them home again.
I'm like, it's fine.
They're just passing
through saying hello.
>>NOORY: Yeah, what does
hubby think about all this?
>>MCINVALE: [LAUGHS]
He's really good.
He's the man behind the
camera, God bless him.
So he's really good, and
he gets really excited.
He found that cry and
immediately called me
when he was reviewing
the footage.
He loves history,
and he and I both
had ancestors in all of
these wars and things
that I write about.
So we kind of like the idea
that we're touching base
with our own past.
>>NOORY: Do you hear these
sounds, Courtney, when
you're there live in the field?
>>MCINVALE: So the
drumming I did.
The drumming I did.
>>NOORY: You hear it
in the background.
>>MCINVALE: I heard
it in the background.
I've heard cannons
in the background,
gunfire in the background.
I've heard people talking
in the background.
The cry just took
me by surprise.
I didn't hear that that day.
>>NOORY: Do you
ever hear shouts?
>>MCINVALE: Yes.
>>NOORY: Go get him,
things like that?
>>MCINVALE: Yeah, they would
often say that to each other.
Go get 'em boys and
things like that.
And you can hear those shouts.
You can hear what sounds like
a battle cry or a rebel yell.
Sometimes, we'll hear a
lot of that sound coming
from the woods, which was
iconic for the Confederates.
>>NOORY: What are the
spirits expect from you?
>>MCINVALE: I don't know that
they expect anything from me,
but I think they hope that
I will share their legacy.
>>NOORY: They're contacting
you for a reason.
>>MCINVALE: I know.
>>NOORY: There must
be something going on.
>>MCINVALE: I don't want
to put anything on them.
I think that their hope is
that their legacy doesn't die
and that I can help them.
>>NOORY: And have you?
>>MCINVALE: I've been
writing many books.
So I've written two books
about the Civil War soldiers
and one about the
Revolutionary War.
And I'm still going.
And I'm still going there all
the time to talk about them
and make sure that people know
their stories and who they are.
>>NOORY: What kind of people go
on these haunted history tours?
>>MCINVALE: Oh, everybody.
I like to think that there's
something for everyone
on these tours and
in these books,
whether it's people who
are interested in their own
history, they're interested
in ghost stories,
they're interested in
understanding something
that happened to them.
But hopefully, it's
someone who wants
to know where we came from and
how it still resonates today.
>>NOORY: Do you ever get reports
of lights in the area, UFO type
things or anything like that?
>>MCINVALE: Yes.
>>NOORY: You do?
>>MCINVALE: I do.
I do.
So I will fully admit to you
I am very focused on my ghosts
from the past.
However, it seems
that a lot of times
where one paranormal thing
resides, other things
reside too.
During COVID, I
started researching
an area that had this infamous
axe murder by a madman.
And then I noticed
there were other legends
of Native American creatures,
of UFOs, things like that.
And that was intriguing.
And then it sort of came right
into my own backyard in Mystic.
I was training a tour guide,
and he was facing the audience.
And I was in the audience.
And above his head,
way up in the sky,
I saw these three red lights.
And they were enormous.
>>NOORY: Did he see
them too or just you?
>>MCINVALE: I was the only one
facing it because they were all
looking at him.
And I looked up.
>>NOORY: Yeah, he'd have
to look up and back.
>>MCINVALE: And I saw
them, and they went away.
And I whispered to my husband
because I had him over.
I said, did you see?
He said, no, I was
paying attention to him.
And I said, shoot, there
were these lights up there.
But I do enough ghosts, I
don't have room for UFOs too.
And he said, you
know, let's look up
and see if anyone else saw it.
And we saw that someone
else did reported it
online at the same time.
And I wasn't sure what it was.
And then a couple of weeks
later, one of my tour guides
got a photo taken on his
tour from a guest of what
appeared to be this UFO type
anomaly in the sky just sitting
over the Mystic River.
>>NOORY: Clearly,
something was there.
>>MCINVALE: Something was there.
>>NOORY: Clearly.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Whatever it was.
>>MCINVALE: Whatever
it was, yeah.
>>NOORY: Who is, what
is your favorite ghost?
>>MCINVALE: My favorite
ghost, it's so hard to pick.
I love-- I love
them all so much.
>>NOORY: You've become
friends with them.
>>MCINVALE: I know,
and I feel bad if I,
like, favor any of them.
>>NOORY: They're listening
to you right now.
You know that.
>>MCINVALE: I know.
I know.
They're listening thinking,
who is she going to say?
>>NOORY: Is it me?
Is it me?
>>MCINVALE: [LAUGHS]
I have so many
for so many different reasons.
The Brooks brothers always
have a place in my heart
for leading me forward.
There were some
brothers from Georgia,
which is where my
dad was from, that
led me to write about
Georgia, the Jeffers brothers.
So those are some
of my favorites.
But I also have a
lot of encounters
with the spirits of
generals like Mansfield,
like Nathaniel Lyon, and on
the Confederate side, Stonewall
Jackson, Robert E. Lee,
a whole bunch of them.
I've just had
interesting encounters.
>>NOORY: What do you
recommend to people, Courtney,
who encounter a
ghost, they don't have
any experience handling ghosts.
They may not even
know what they are,
but what do you
recommend they do?
>>MCINVALE: If
they encounter one.
>>NOORY: If they encounter one.
>>MCINVALE: I
recommend that they
treat them with
respect and kindness
and try not to
respond with fear.
When we respond with
fear, we get fear back
or the energy sort of becomes--
I don't know.
Funky in a way.
If you respond just like they
would have responded to you
if they saw each other alive.
So I tell people,
you're not going
to walk into a
living person's house
and start acting weird around
them and demanding things.
So if you encounter a spirit,
ask them who they are,
what their name
is, what they need,
and try to have a conversation.
And try to keep it peaceful.
And then let them know
that they can move along,
or they can stick around
if it's up to you.
>>NOORY: Do you miss
work with the FBI?
>>MCINVALE: No.
>>NOORY: Not at all.
>>MCINVALE: Not at all.
>>NOORY: Since you
replaced it with this.
>>MCINVALE: Not at all.
I actually never looked back.
I think this is the path I
was always meant to be on.
And I'm just grateful at all the
experiences that led me here.
>>NOORY: How do people find you?
>>MCINVALE: So people can find
me through Seaside Shadows.
People can find me on my author
website courtneymcinvale.com.
And they can correspond
with me, check out my books,
and see what events
I have going on.
>>NOORY: And what's
next for you, Courtney?
>>MCINVALE: What's
next is I'm going
to keep cultivating events
where we can share haunted
stories with
people, but I'm also
going to keep writing those
books and sharing those stories
and ensuring that the heartbeats
of history are remembered.
>>NOORY: I look at you,
and I see someone who
loves doing what you're doing.
>>MCINVALE: I do.
>>NOORY: It's not
a game with you.
>>MCINVALE: No.
>>NOORY: And you take
it darn seriously.
>>MCINVALE: I do.
I do.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
emotionally gotten upset--
>>MCINVALE: Oh my gosh, yes.
>>NOORY: --on a tour
or something like that?
>>MCINVALE:
Generally, on a tour,
I can usually keep it together.
But when I'm writing stories
or I'm investigating on my own,
sometimes I've definitely cried.
I've felt sadness.
I read a story, I'll tell
you, and I wrote about it,
about a dog that
followed these soldiers
around throughout the whole war
as this sort of spirit guide.
He appeared when
they needed him.
He stayed till the very end,
until shrapnel just hit him out
of nowhere.
And I cried reading that
whole story and the three page
obituary these soldiers wrote
about the soul of this dog.
Just they are people like us.
They have these stories like us.
And it definitely makes me feel
for them and gets me emotional.
>>NOORY: And what would you
tell people who don't believe?
What do you say to them?
>>MCINVALE: I say, that's fine,
just stay open and remember
that your ancestors--
>>NOORY: And stay away.
>>MCINVALE: [LAUGHS]
Stay open and I
remind them your ancestors
believed in a soul that
lived separately from the body.
What you call it, what you
name it doesn't matter,
but there's an essence
and an energy to us,
and it never goes away.
>>NOORY: Did you have
relatives at Gettysburg?
>>MCINVALE: I did.
I did.
>>NOORY: And what
happened to them?
>>MCINVALE: Some of my
three-times great grandfathers
were there.
>>NOORY: Did they pass--
>>MCINVALE: I did have.
>>NOORY: --there.
>>MCINVALE: The ones that
fought at Gettysburg, actually
survived Gettysburg,
but I did have
a three-times great grandfather
who died in Manassas.
And he was only 21 years old.
>>NOORY: So what
recommendation would
you give to people
who have children,
and they want them to learn
things about American history?
>>MCINVALE: I would
tell them, you
know what, bring
them right to it
because maybe they can
learn it from the source.
And a lot of times, we can
utilize this fascination
with the supernatural
or the unknown
to help educate people
about what really happened
and to help history live
on in a way that's not just
numbers in a book but a
face and a name and a story.
>>NOORY: You don't think you'd
scare the living daylights out
of the little ones?
>>MCINVALE: No, I think
tell them the story.
And then once they have a name
and they know that's a person,
they won't be too scared.
They'll be happy that someone
from the past was there.
>>NOORY: The pain, though,
that must be at Gettysburg
is unbelievable.
Because I have heard
from other sources too--
>>MCINVALE: Mm-hmm
>>NOORY: --of people
who have witnessed
seeing the ghosts of soldiers.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: The
screams of soldiers.
>>MCINVALE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: The pain, the agony.
>>NOORY: It was a horrible
time in this country.
>>MCINVALE: It was horrible.
It was the deadliest
battle of the Civil War.
The Civil War had 640,000
casualties in four years,
and Gettysburg had
near 50,000 casualties
over these three
days, casualties,
including wounded and
missing, of course.
>>NOORY: Sure,
>>MCINVALE: But
to me, Gettysburg
is a perfect example
of a residual haunt.
So I tell people to take heart.
It doesn't mean that the
spirits are there in agony.
It means that what
happened to them is still
replaying in the earth
there where we are in a way.
It doesn't mean that they
are there actively in pain.
>>NOORY: Courtney, if
you had an opportunity
to talk to one ghost
from Gettysburg,
what would you tell him?
>>MCINVALE: Huh, oh my
gosh, it would probably
be General Iverson from Georgia.
And I would say, don't you dare
send those boys into those pits
because all of them
are going to die.
And it will be the
deadliest charge,
and your life will
change forever.
>>NOORY: And he may
say it's too late.
>>MCINVALE: He may.
I think I accidentally
encountered General Iverson.
I saw a fearful spirit
right where the charge was.
It was the oldest recorded
story at Gettysburg.
He was a little out
of sorts, not himself.
Some say he was drunk because
his wife had just died,
but he sent 900 men
in into a firing pit,
and they all died in minutes.
And they still rise
up out of those pits.
And when I was there, I saw the
face of a man in the darkness,
when my husband was away from
me, looking at me afraid that I
didn't realize till I was
looking at pictures of people
later, looked like him.
And when we got in the car
and we were driving away,
I could still see him
on the side of the car.
And the indicator
light was going off
that something was
next to the car.
So I think General Iverson
would be the one I'd talk to.
>>NOORY: If you were in a
TV show like "Quantum Leap,"
and you appeared in the 1800s
at Gettysburg in the middle
of this horrible,
horrible battle--
>>MCINVALE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: --what
would you be doing?
>>MCINVALE: Oh, I would
be trying to help.
I'd be tending to the wounded
trying to pull them back
from the fray.
I would like to say I would be
negotiating with the generals.
I want to tell General Iverson,
I want to tell General Lee,
don't send those
boys on that charge.
I also don't want to do that
because then maybe the Union
wouldn't win.
I don't know.
So I would be helping.
And I don't think
there's anything else
that a woman at that time
would have been allowed to do,
so I would have had to slyly
go around and just tend
to people as much as I could.
>>NOORY: Well, thank
you for what you do.
And I think keeping
this message alive
is so critical and so
important, don't you?
>>MCINVALE: I do.
I think history
lives in all of us.
It's in our past, our
present, our future.
It's connected.
And so I think it's
incredibly important
to remember where we came from.
>>NOORY: And if you took a
tour of kids to Gettysburg--
>>MCINVALE: Yes.
>>NOORY: --what
would you tell them?
>>MCINVALE: I would tell
them to remember, not
just the past but to learn
of sacrifice and loyalty
and belief and how every
little thing we do matters,
no matter how long our life is.
>>NOORY: Courtney, thanks
for being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MCINVALE: Thank you
so much for having me.
It's been a pleasure.
>>NOORY: I can only
imagine the tragedy
that occurred during the
Civil War at Gettysburg
the screams, the
pain, the suffering.
But for Courtney, she
brings it home in a way
that people can understand
and be a little more sensitive
to the tragedy that occurred.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]